84 oper status (#93)
boucadair/attachment-circuit-model: draft-boro-opsawg-teas-attachment-circuit.md

'status':
: Used to track the overall status of a given bearer. Both operational and administrative status are maintained together with a timestamp.

> : The "admin-status" attribute is typically configured by a network administrator or operator to determine whether the network element or service is enabled, disabled, or subjected to additional testing or pre-deployment checks. These additional options, such as 'admin-testing' and 'admin-pre-deployment', provide the operators the flexibility to conduct additional validations on the bearer before deploying services over that connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The "admin-status" attribute is typically configured by a network or operator to indicate whether the network element or service is enabled, disabled, or subjected to additional testing or pre-deployment checks. These additional options, such as 'admin-testing' and 'admin-pre-deployment', provide the operators the flexibility to conduct additional validations on the bearer before deploying services over that connection.
```

> : It's important to note that the "admin-status" attribute should remain independent of the "oper-status". In other words, the intended administrative state, whether "admin-up" or "admin-testing", should not be influenced by the current operational state. If the bearer is administratively set to 'admin-down', it is expected that the bearer will also be operationally 'op-down' as a result of this administrative decision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: It is important to note that the "admin-status" attribute should remain independent of the "oper-status". In other words, the setting of the intended administrative state (e.g., whether "admin-up" or "admin-testing") MUST NOT be influenced by the current operational state. If the bearer is administratively set to 'admin-down', it is expected that the bearer will also be operationally 'op-down' as a result of this administrative decision.
```

> : The "oper-status" of a service reflects its operational state as observed at a particular bearer. As a berer can contain multiple services the operational status should only reflect the status of the bearer connection. To obtain network-level service status, specific network models, such as those outlined in {{!RFC9182}} Section 7.3 or {{!RFC9291}} Section 7.3, should be consulted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The "oper-status" of a service reflects its operational state as observed at a particular bearer. As a bearer can be used fir multiple services, the operational status should only reflect the status of the bearer connection. The network-level service status can be retrieved using specific   network models, e.g., those listed in {{ Section 7.3 of !RFC9182}} or
{{Section 7.3 of !RFC9291}}.
```

> : To assess the service delivery status for a given bearer comprehensively, it's recommended to consider both administrative and operational service statuses in conjunction. This holistic approach  allows a network controller or operator to identify anomalies effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: To assess the service delivery status for a given bearer comprehensively, it is recommended to consider both administrative and operational service statuses in conjunction. This holistic approach  allows a network controller or operator to identify anomalies effectively.
```

> : For instance, when a beraer is administratively enabled but the "operational-status" of that bearer is reported as "op-down" it should be expected that the services's transported for thar bearer "oper-status" is also "down." If these statuses differ, it serves as a trigger to detect an anomaly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: For instance, when a bearer is administratively enabled but the "operational-status" of that bearer is reported as "op-down", it should be expected that the "oper-status" of services transported over that bearer is also down. If these status values differ, a trigger to detect an anomaly.
```
